[Music]
the word that came to Jeremiah
concerning
of Judah in the fourth year of Jehoiakim
the son of Josiah King of Judah which
was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon which Jeremiah the
Prophet spoke to all the people of Judah
and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem
from the thirteenth year of Josiah the
son of ammon king of Judah even to this
day this is the 23rd year in which the
word of the Lord has come to me and I
have spoken to you rising early and
speaking but you have not listened and
the Lord has sent to you all his
servants the prophets rising early and
sending them but you have not listened
nor inclined your ear to hear they said
repent now every one of his evil way and
his evil doings and dwell in the land
that the Lord has given to you and your
father's for ever and ever
do not go after other gods to serve them
and worship them and do not provoke me
to anger with the works of your hands
and I will not harm you yet you have not
listened to me says the Lord that you
might provoke me to anger with the works
of your hands to your own hurt therefore
thus says the Lord of hosts because you
have not heard my words behold I will
send and take all the families of the
north says the Lord and Nebuchadnezzar
the king of Babylon to my servant and
will bring them against this land
against its inhabitants and against
these nations all around and will
utterly destroy them and make them an
astonishment a hissing and perpetual
desolations moreover I will take from
them the voice of mirth and the voice of
gladness the voice of the bridegroom and
the voice of the bride
the sound of the millstones and the
light of the lamp
and this whole land shall be a
desolation and an astonishment and these
nations shall serve the king of Babylon
seventy years then it will come to pass
when seventy years are completed that I
will punish the king of Babylon and that
nation the land of the Chaldeans for
their iniquity and I will make it a
perpetual desolation so I will bring on
that land all my words which I have
pronounced against it all that is
written in this book which Jeremiah has
prophesied concerning all the nations
for many nations and great kings shall
be served by them also and I will repay
them according to their deeds and
according to the works of their own
hands where thus says the Lord God of
Israel to me take this wine cup of fury
from my hand and cause all the nations
to whom I send you to drink it and they
will drink and stagger and go mad
because of the sword that I will send
among them then I took the cup from the
Lord's hand and made all the nations
drink to whom the Lord had sent me
Jerusalem and the cities of Judah its
kings and it's princess to make them a
desolation and astonishment I sing and
the curse as it is this day Pharaoh king
of Egypt his servants his princes and
all his people all the mixed multitude
all the kings of the land of Oz all the
kings of the land of the Philistines
namely Ashkelon Gaza Ekron and the
remnant of Ashdod Edom Moab and the
people of Ammon all the kings of tyre
all the kings of Sidon and the kings of
the coastlands which are across the sea
didn't tima buzz and all who are in the
farthest corners all the kings of Arabia
and all the kings of the mixed multitude
who dwell in the desert all the kings of
Zim Roy all the kings of Elam and all
the kings of the Medes all the kings of
the North far and near one with another
and all the kingdoms of the world which
are on the face of the earth also the
king of sea Shack shall drink after them
therefore you shall say to them thus
says the Lord of hosts the God of Israel
drink the drunk and vomit fall and rise
no more because of the sword which I
will send among you and it shall be if
they refuse to take the cup from your
hand to drink then you shall say to them
thus says the Lord of hosts you shall
certainly drink for behold I begin to
bring calamity on the city which is
called by my name and should you be
utterly unpunished you shall not be
unpunished for I will call for a sword
on all the inhabitants of the earth says
the Lord of hosts therefore prophesy
against them all these words and say to
them the Lord will draw from on high and
utter his voice from his holy habitation
he will roar mightily against his fold
he will give a shout as those who tread
the grapes against all the inhabitants
of the earth a nose will come to the
ends of the earth for the Lord has a
controversy with the nation's he will
plead his case will all flesh he will
give those who are wicked to the sword
says the Lord thus says the Lord of
hosts behold disaster shall go forth
from nation to nation and a great
whirlwind shall be raised up from the
farthest parts of the earth and at that
day the slain of the Lord shall be from
one end of the earth even to the other
end of the earth they shall not be
lamented or
or gathered or buried they shall become
refused on the ground Wales Shepherds
and cry roll about in the ashes you
leaders of the flock for the days of
your slaughter and your dispersions are
fulfilled you shall fall like a precious
vessel and the Shepherd's will have no
way to flee nor the leaders of the flock
to escape a voice of the cry of the
Shepherd's
and a wailing of the leaders to the
flock will be heard for the Lord has
plundered their pasture and the peaceful
dwellings are cut down because of the
fierce anger of the Lord he has left his
lair like the lion for their land is
desolate because of the fierceness of
the oppressor and because of his fierce
anger
[Music]